---
layout: post
title: "18 Years"
date: 2014-03-21 23:39
categories: 
---

In about a week I turn 18 years old. Legally, that's a big deal. I'll be able to vote, open a bank account, be sued, sue others, participate in jury duty, and more (Did I mention I'd be able to drink in almost every country in the world?). It isn't as if one day I will suddenly become an adult, but after this day I will be granted privileges that will put me closer to full independence (technically after this point I will have full independence), my overarching goal. Through this I will be getting closer to becoming an adult, taking more and more responsibility for myself.

Adulthood is a double edged sword: You are granted freedom with your life, and yet you bear the consequences of your actions. That is something children don't have to deal with. They always have their parents behind them to clean up their mess. This can be good and bad: on the one hand, you give children the freedom to explore the world without having to worry about consequences. At the same time, there is no cause and effect, which can bring about people who can cause disasters and rely on others to clean up the spill. 

I was at an after school program with K-2nd graders and I noticed their present-orientedness and playfulness. Adults are playful too, but we have real life responsibilities that we deal with. We bear the burden of needing to contribute something to the world. 

Watching these kids I almost felt a desire to be a kid again. To not have any worries. 

And then I realized that these worries are just consequences of doing something important. I think I'd rather be in control of my life and have worries then to not have any worries and yet not be able to make decisions. 

I'm excited to become an "adult". I'm ready to get my hands dirty. I'm ready to fail and get back up. 

I'm ready to take control of my life. 

